<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[Home](./index.md) &gt; [server](./server.md) &gt; [BaseCharacterController](./server.basecharactercontroller.md)

## BaseCharacterController class

A base class for character controller implementations.

**Signature:**

```typescript
export default abstract class BaseCharacterController 
```

## Remarks

The BaseCharacterController should be extended by a more specific character controller that you or a plugin implements. Character controllers are intended to be used as one controller instance per entity, but are flexible enough for edge cases such as if you want to create niche behavior of one controller for many entities that behave in unison.

## Properties

<table><thead><tr><th>

Property


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Type


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[onAttach?](./server.basecharactercontroller.onattach.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [Entity](./server.entity.md)<!-- -->) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called when the controller is attached to an entity. Useful for implementing attach logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onDespawn?](./server.basecharactercontroller.ondespawn.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [Entity](./server.entity.md)<!-- -->) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called when the controlled entity is despawned. Useful for implementing despawn logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onDetach?](./server.basecharactercontroller.ondetach.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [Entity](./server.entity.md)<!-- -->) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called when the controller is detached from an entity. Useful for implementing detach logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onSpawn?](./server.basecharactercontroller.onspawn.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [Entity](./server.entity.md)<!-- -->) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called when the controlled entity is spawned. Useful for implementing spawn logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onTick?](./server.basecharactercontroller.ontick.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [Entity](./server.entity.md)<!-- -->, deltaTimeMs: number) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called every tick. Useful for implementing tick logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[onTickWithPlayerInput?](./server.basecharactercontroller.ontickwithplayerinput.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

(entity: [PlayerEntity](./server.playerentity.md)<!-- -->, input: [PlayerInput](./server.playerinput.md)<!-- -->, cameraOrientation: [PlayerCameraOrientation](./server.playercameraorientation.md)<!-- -->, deltaTimeMs: number) =&gt; void


</td><td>

_(Optional)_ A function that is called every tick with player input by a PlayerEntity with this controller attached. Useful for implementing tick logic without writing a new character controller class.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Methods

<table><thead><tr><th>

Method


</th><th>

Modifiers


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[attach(entity)](./server.basecharactercontroller.attach.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle the attachment of an entity to your character controller.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[despawn(entity)](./server.basecharactercontroller.despawn.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle the despawn of an entity from your character controller.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[detach(entity)](./server.basecharactercontroller.detach.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle the detachment of an entity from your character controller.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[spawn(entity)](./server.basecharactercontroller.spawn.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle the spawning of an entity to your character controller.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[tick(entity, deltaTimeMs)](./server.basecharactercontroller.tick.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle entity movements based on your character controller.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[tickWithPlayerInput(entity, input, cameraOrientation, deltaTimeMs)](./server.basecharactercontroller.tickwithplayerinput.md)


</td><td>


</td><td>

Override this method to handle entity movements based on player input for your character controller. This is called every tick by a PlayerEntity with a character controller.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
